.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" gtetrinet.6 is copyright 2001, 2002 by
.\" Jordi Mallach <jordi@debian.org>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation, see the latest version of the GNU Free
.\" Documentation License for copying conditions. There is NO warranty.
.\"
.TH GTETRINET 6 "October 12, 2002" "gtetrinet"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"

.SH NAME
GTetrinet \- a Tetrinet client for X using Gtk+ and GNOME-libs.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gtetrinet
.RI [ options ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B gtetrinet
command.
.PP
\fBGTetrinet\fP is a Tetrinet client using Gtk+ and GNOME-libs.
Tetrinet is a variant of the popular Tetris brick game, that can be played
simultaneously by 6 players. GTetrinet's goal is to remain completely
compatible with the Windows, original client. Tetrinet clients need to
connect to a dedicated server in order to be useful. GTetrient only provides
the client part, but there are plenty of available servers around.
Look at http://www.tetrinet.org/ for a list of servers.
.PP
There is also an implementation of the server for UNIX, called tetrinetx. You
can find more info about it in http://tetrinetx.sourceforge.net/.
.SH OPTIONS
GTetrinet accepts the following options, besides the usual Gtk+/GNOME
switches:
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-connect=SERVER
Connect to the specified server.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display a summary of commandline options.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-nickname=NICKNAME
Use the specified nickname on the servers.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-team=TEAM
Join the specified team name for teamplay.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-spectate
Connect to the server as an spectator.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-password=PASSWORD
Use the given password to connect as a spectator (if needed).

.SH USAGE
To play Tetrinet, you first need to find a server where you can connect.
You may try the servers at
.I http://www.tetrinet.org/
or create your own using \fBtetrinetx\fP (a UNIX server, not included in
this package).
.br
Once inside a server, you'll be able to communicate with other players
using the \fBPartyLine\fP tab, see the server's highscores in the
\fBWinlist\fP tab and the actual game in the \fBPlaying Fields\fP tab.
You can switch between the three tabs using the F1, F2 and F3 shortcuts.
.br
Tetrinet is like Tetris, but multiplayer and with some additions. The goal of
the game is to remain alive, by filling up other player's fields. There are
some special blocks that can be used for your own benefit and against other
players. They will appear randomly in your field, replacing previously
existing blocks when you complete a line. You'll gain special blocks when
you complete a line that contains one. It will be added to your
\fBinventory\fP, which is just below your playfield. You need to use them in
the order you collect them, by pressing the number of the player you want to
use it against. For example, if your active block is "Add Line" and you want
to use it against Player 3, you'd have to press "3" and Player 3 would
get a line added in that instant.
The following blocks are available:
.RS
.TP
.I A block
Add Line will an incomplete line to the bottom of the playing field to the
player you choose.
.TP
.I B block
This will remove all the special blocks from a player's field.
.TP
.I C block
Clear Line is the opposite to Add Line; it will remove a line from the
top of the selected player's field.
.TP
.I G block
The Gravity block may be very useful if applied to a field which has lots of
unfilled spaces all around. Blocks over them will fall into the gaps,
making the puzzle collapse significantly.
.TP
.I N block
Nuke will clear the chosen playing field completely, as if they had just
started the game. It's useful to help team mates or when you are about to
lose.
.TP
.I O block
Block Bomb will clear 3x3 portions of a player's field where there are other
O blocks. The blocks in the 3x3 area will get scattered anywhere around the
field.
.TP
.I Q block
Quake will make each of the lines in a player's field shift to the left or
right, or stay as they were.
.TP
.I R block
Random will remove 10 random blocks from the selected player's field.
.TP
.I S block
Switch allows you to swap your playing field with another player. This can
be a deadly block if used with a bit of strategy.
.RE

.SH HOMEPAGE
http://gtetrinet.sourceforge.net/

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jordi Mallach <jordi@debian.org>,
for the Debian system (but may be used by others).
Ka-shu Wong <zillidot@zillidot.net> is GTetrinet's main developer.
You can find more information about GTetrinet in /usr/share/doc/gtetrinet.
